docs/debugging.md, before:

---
title: Debugging
---

With `debug` mode and logging enabled, below is an example of the Partytown logs showing all calls, getters and setters:

![Partytown Debug Console Logs](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/452425/131688576-e207cb15-7ce5-4009-a358-3e3093d51957.png)

The [debug config](/configuration) must be `true` in order to see more verbose logging messages. The config table below lists all of the possible log configurations.

| Log Config Property     | Description                         |
| ----------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| `logCalls`              | Log method calls                    |
| `logGetters`            | Log getter calls                    |
| `logSetters`            | Log setter calls                    |
| `logImageRequests`      | Log Image() src requests            |
| `logScriptExecution`    | Log script executions               |
| `logSendBeaconRequests` | Log navigator.sendBeacon() requests |
| `logStackTraces`        | Log stack traces                    |

Please see the [debug file docs](/distribution#libdebug) more information about the distribution.

Commit message:

Adds info about viewing the logs in Chrome DevTools

docs/debugging.md, after:

---
title: Debugging
---

With `debug` mode and logging enabled, below is an example of the Partytown logs showing all calls, getters and setters:

![Partytown Debug Console Logs](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/452425/131688576-e207cb15-7ce5-4009-a358-3e3093d51957.png)

The [debug config](/configuration) must be `true` in order to see more verbose logging messages. The config table below lists all of the possible log configurations.

If you are using Chrome DevTools to see these logs, make sure that the `Verbose` log level is selected in Console

| Log Config Property     | Description                         |
| ----------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| `logCalls`              | Log method calls                    |
| `logGetters`            | Log getter calls                    |
| `logSetters`            | Log setter calls                    |
| `logImageRequests`      | Log Image() src requests            |
| `logScriptExecution`    | Log script executions               |
| `logSendBeaconRequests` | Log navigator.sendBeacon() requests |
| `logStackTraces`        | Log stack traces                    |

Please see the [debug file docs](/distribution#libdebug) more information about the distribution.
